Our text for today deals with the quality
of meekness.
Interestingly, one Watchtower  article stated
that “meekness is [actually]
a difficult quality to cultivate”
—difficult but certainly not impossible.
We can say this because just think
of the number of scriptures
that mention the quality of meekness
as being essential for salvation.
For example: Psalm 37:11:
“The meek will possess the earth.”
Psalm 76:9:
“[God will] save all the meek of the earth.”
Psalm 149:4:
“[Jehovah] adorns the meek with salvation.”
And then our text comments
mention Zephaniah 2:3.
I invite you to take out your Bibles.
Let’s read that from God’s Word.
Zephaniah chapter 2
verse 3 says:
“Seek Jehovah,
all you meek ones of the earth,
“who observe his righteous decrees.
“Seek righteousness, seek meekness.
“Probably you will be concealed
on the day of Jehovah’s anger.”
So all these scriptures show the connection
between meekness and our salvation.
So let’s take a moment then and examine
how this quality relates to each of us.
The Insight  book defines meekness
as “a mildness of temper,
without haughtiness or vanity.
“[It is] the mental disposition
that enables one
“to endure injury with patience
“and without irritation, resentment,
or vindictive retaliation.”
And as was mentioned earlier,
how well this is illustrated
in the Bible example of Moses!
Let’s go back to the Bible
—this time to Numbers chapter 12.
We’ll read a particular account and see
how the Bible describes the man Moses.
Numbers 12:1 says:
“Now Miriam and Aaron
began to speak against Moses
“because of the Cushite wife he had married,
“for he had taken a Cushite wife.
“They were saying: ‘Is it only by Moses
that Jehovah has spoken?
“Has he not also spoken through us?’
“And Jehovah was listening.
“Now the man Moses was by far
the meekest of all the men
on the face of the earth.”
Well, we learn some interesting things
in these verses
to help establish why Moses is described
as “the meekest of all the men
on the face of the earth.”
Notice in verse 1 that Miriam and Aaron
—Moses’ older brother and sister—
It says they “began to speak against Moses.”
Their speaking against him meant
they were likely spreading
their complaints about Moses
throughout the Israelite camp.
Miriam had
a measure of influence in the camp.
She was a prophetess.
The Bible says that she led the women
in singing and dancing
when Jehovah defeated Pharaoh
and the Egyptians at the Red Sea.
So now that Moses’ wife, Zipporah,
was going to rejoin them in the wilderness,
is it possible that Miriam may have feared
that she would no longer be
the leading lady in the camp?
Perhaps she felt that she would lose
some of her prominence to Moses’ wife
—a non-Israelite at that.
Now, although Zipporah was not an Israelite,
if we look in Exodus chapter 4,
it shows that she demonstrated
her willingness to adhere to God’s laws.
So the root of Miriam’s complaints
and murmuring
had nothing to do with true worship
or the protection of God’s people.
Instead, the root cause
appears to be jealousy
—an improper desire
for authority and recognition.
And she, along with her brother Aaron,
used this as an excuse
to murmur against Moses.
But if we look back in this account,
how is the meekness of Moses
made apparent?
Well, despite the resentment and murmuring
on the part of Miriam and Aaron,
Moses patiently and quietly
endured the abuse.
And if we look in verse 2,
Moses did not have to defend himself
because “Jehovah was listening,”
and He took action.
If you look in verses 6-8,
Jehovah rebukes Miriam and Aaron.
And Miriam,
evidently the apparent instigator,
is stricken with leprosy.
And when this happens, if you look
in verses 11 and 12 (how interesting),
Aaron asks Moses
to intercede on her behalf.
Now for just a moment,
let’s just put ourselves in Moses’ sandals.
Could we blame Moses if he were upset?
Here it is, his older siblings
have disrespected Jehovah,
they’ve disrespected Moses
as God’s representative,
and now they’re talking about Moses’ wife,
even when there was no just cause to do so.
So could Moses have now felt about Miriam:
‘You know what? You had this coming to you.
‘You brought this upon yourself.
You are getting exactly what you deserve’?
Well, even though Moses
could have been justified,
when he was given the opportunity,
notice what he does in verse 13:
“[He begins] to cry out to Jehovah, saying:
“‘O God, please heal her!
Please!’”
What a beautiful example of meekness
displayed by Moses!
Now, how can his example benefit us?
Well, think about this:
When is the next time you and I
might need to show meekness?
Could it be later today
if we find that our work is being delayed
by someone else or another department?
Could it be at our meeting this week
if we receive counsel on a meeting part?
Could it be if we find that we’ve lost
or that we’ve been passed over
for a privilege of service?
You see, because of our imperfect state,
any number of circumstances could arise
where we might need to look back
on Moses’ example
of displaying meekness.
Now for just a moment,
let’s go back to Zephaniah 2:3.
If you notice in verse 3, we are told
to “seek meekness.”
That means that none of us
are born with this quality,
so we have to seek it
by asking, by searching,
by praying for Jehovah’s help
to exercise restraint
and represent him properly,
even under difficult circumstances.
Perhaps we’ve had the experience
in the ministry where we’ve been ridiculed
or we’ve encountered unreasonable individuals
who state all sorts of misconceptions
about Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and we’ve heard them.
We don’t believe in Jesus;
we break up families;
we don’t believe in helping the community.
And maybe when we hear them,
it may bother us.
Frankly, it might even upset us
to the point where we just feel
we need to give a reply.
We must defend ourselves.
We have to get the last word in
in order to set the householder straight
on our beliefs.
But might that be the very time
to seek meekness
—to pray to Jehovah to exercise restraint?
Or perhaps, on a more personal level,
it may be that we experience an injustice.
Perhaps we have a misunderstanding
with a member of our family here
or with a brother or sister
in the congregation.
And whatever the issue is,
we may have a legitimate complaint.
But isn’t it true that if we’re not careful,
if we don’t seek meekness,
if we don’t seek to resolve the matter
in a spirit of meekness,
well, wouldn’t you agree
that voicing our legitimate complaint
could very easily cross the line
into murmuring?
And we know how Jehovah feels about that.
So certainly, we would never want
to do anything to disappoint him.
Moses was meek
—the meekest man who ever lived.
But even he reached a point on one occasion
where he did not show meekness
and exercise restraint,
and he suffered the consequences.
So if you and I are to continue
to draw close to God
and remain acceptable to him,
we must strive to uproot any traces
of pride, jealousy, ambition,
or vindictiveness
that we may see in ourselves.
Yes, Jehovah loves those who are meek.
Those who are meek will inherit salvation.
So may each of us
continue to seek this quality
by asking, praying,
and then cultivating a submissive attitude
that will allow us
to be among the meek
who will inherit the earth.